# Changes in Employment / Unemployment Rates During the Pandemic (Covid-19) Period

<p><br></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 26px;"><strong><em>&bull;Introduction</em></strong></span></p>
<p><span style='color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Bernini, "Bernini Sans", "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 14px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255); text-decoration-thickness: initial; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; float: none; display: inline !important;'><strong><em>Employment rates are defined as a measure of the extent to which available labour resources (people available to work) are being used. They are calculated as the ratio of the employed to the working age population. Employment rates are sensitive to the economic cycle, but in the longer term they are significantly affected by governments&apos; higher education and income support policies and by policies that facilitate employment of women and disadvantaged groups</em></strong></span></p>
<p><strong><em><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14px;">Covid 19 has even affected large and powerful economies around the world. Governments have tried to reduce the effects of covid19 to protect the economy. For this reason, curfews and the temporary closure of most businesses adversely affected human life. In particular, businesses were in a difficult situation and laid off their workers. Although a ban was imposed during the pandemic period to prevent unemployment in some countries, this was useless. During the pandemic process around the world, thousands of workplaces were closed and millions of people were unemployed as a result. When we look at Turkey, the worsening economic situation and inflation rate in the last 10 years have become worse with the pandemic. Unemployment rates, which have increased every year, have increased even more during the pandemic period (2020). This is largely due to the increase in the number of cases during the pandemic period. But the mismanagement of the government was also effective in this.</span></em></strong></p>
<h2 style='box-sizing: border-box; margin-top: 24px; margin-bottom: 16px; font-weight: 600; font-size: 1.5em; line-height: 1.25; padding-bottom: 0.3em; border-bottom: 1px solid var(--color-border-secondary); color: rgb(36, 41, 46); font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji"; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255); text-decoration-thickness: initial; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial;'><em style="box-sizing: border-box;"><span style='font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);'>&bull;Information About Data</span></em></h2>
<p><span style="font-family: Helvetica; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"><strong><em><span style="font-size: 14px;">I needed to obtain the data that I would use in my report from reliable sites. I needed to access periodic employment rates and tables along with historical data. At this point, I used the reports of the OECD and ILO organization for world data. I also benefited from TUIK data for Turkey statistics.</span></em></strong></span></p>
<p><br></p>
<p><br></p>

    
